Adrian AI Materials (#5)
Ada-Developers-Academy/independent-ai-topics: working-with-openai/open-ai-api-in-projects.md

## Make the API call

To make an API call, we'll create a helper function called `generate_greetings` that will take a `Character` in as a parameter. Then we'll use the `Character`'s attributes to construct a prompt for our request body. This may look something like:

```python
def generate_greetings(character):

    prompt = f"I am writing a video game in the style of The Witcher. I have an npc named {character.name} who is {character.age} years old. They are a {character.occupation} who has a {character.personality} personality. Please generate a python style list of 10 stock phrases they might use when the main character talks to them"

```
Once the prompt has been constructed, we can insert it to the request body of our API call. To send the request, we want to go ahead and use the `client` that we created. The code we will use to make the call to the chat completion endpoint and then store the response is:

```python
completion = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
    messages=[
        {"role": "user", "content": <prompt>}
    ]
)

> Remember that the chat completions endpoint returns a completion object. Let's pause here and recall what that object looks like:

Reviewer: I can't add a usable suggestion, but we lost the closing 3 tics to end the completion block above.

Author: Done and pushed!

# Using the OpenAI API

## Goals

Now that we know a bit about the OpenAI endpoints, lets learn how to use them within our programs. To do so, we will work with a partially finished API that creates video game NPCs (Non Playable Characters). Within that program, we will install the OpenAI library and then leverage one of OpenAI's endpoints to generate dialogue for characters we create.

Our goals for this lesson are to:
- Integrate the OpenAI library into a python project.
- Use the OpenAI chat completion endpoint to generate content for our project. 

## Set Up the NPC Generator

This tutorial will walk you through how to integrate the OpenAI API into your projects with the companion repo [NPC Generator](https://github.com/AdaGold/NPC-Generator). We'll start with our usual setup.

1. Fork the repo to your github and then clone to your machine.
2. Create and run a virtual environment for the project.

> 3. Use pip to install the requirements.txt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use `pip` to install the requirements.txt.
```

> ## Explore the NPC Generator
> 
> Take a second to explore the NPC Generator in its current state. For this project, we will be finishing an API that creates NPCs (Non Playable Characters) for a Witcher style game. We currently have two models, "Character" and "Greeting". "Character" holds some basic information about a character and has a one to many relationship with "Greeting", which represents a stock phrase that particular character may say when interacting with the player. Each NPC can have multiple greetings but each greeting can only be connected to one character. We will use the OpenAI API to generate those greetings which we will then store in our database.

Reviewer: To make the intro as accessible as possible, I want to generalize the idea of what we're building since many folks may not know The Witcher. 

```suggestion
## Explore the NPC Generator repo

Take some time to explore the NPC Generator repo in its current state. For this project, we will be finishing an API for a role-playing style game. Our API creates NPCs (Non Playable Characters) that your player's character will interact with. 

We currently have two models, "Character" and "Greeting". "Character" holds some basic information about a character and has a one to many relationship with "Greeting", which represents a stock phrase that particular character may say when interacting with the player. Each NPC can have multiple greetings but each greeting can only be connected to one character. We will use the OpenAI API to generate those greetings which we will then store in our database.
```

    personality: Mapped[str]
    occupation: Mapped[str]
    age: Mapped[int]
    greetings: Mapped[list["Greeting"]] = relationship(back_populates="character")
    
    def to_dict(self):
        return {
            "id" : self.id,
            "name" : self.name,
            "personality" : self.personality,
            "occupation" : self.occupation,
            "age" : self.age
        }
    
    @classmethod
    def from_dict(cls, data_dict):
        new_character = cls(
            name = data_dict["name"],
            personality = data_dict["personality"],
            occupation = data_dict["occupation"],
            age = data_dict["age"]
        )

        return new_character

```
</details>
</br>
<br />

<details>
  <summary><code>Greeting</code> model</summary>

```python
from sqlalchemy.orm import Mapped, mapped_column, relationship
from sqlalchemy import ForeignKey
from ..db import db

class Greeting(db.Model):
    id: Mapped[int] = mapped_column(primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
    greeting_text: Mapped[str]
    character_id: Mapped[int] = mapped_column(ForeignKey("character.id")) 
    character: Mapped["Character"] = relationship(back_populates="greetings")

> def to_dict(self):

Reviewer: It looks like `to_dict` should be indented to be inside the class.

```suggestion
    def to_dict(self):
```

        return {
            "id" : self.id,
            "greeting" : self.greeting_text,
        }
```
</details>
</br>

> Now let's take a look at the routes we currently have. If you examine the code below, we currently have our validate_model helper method as well as a POST endpoint to add a character and a GET endpoint to list all the characters. There are POST and GET endpoints to add and list greetings as well that we will write shortly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's take a look at the routes we currently have. If you examine the code below, we currently have our `validate_model` helper method as well as a POST endpoint to add a character and a GET endpoint to list all the characters. There are POST and GET endpoints to add and list greetings as well that we will write shortly.
```

@bp.get("")
def get_characters():
    character_query = db.select(Character)

    characters = db.session.scalars(character_query)
    response = []

    for character in characters:
        response.append(
            {
                "id" : character.id,
                "name" : character.name,
                "personality" : character.personality,
                "occupation" : character.occupation,
                "age" : character.age
            }
        )

    return jsonify(response)

@bp.get("/<char_id>/greetings")
def get_greetings(char_id):
    pass

@bp.post("/<char_id>/generate")
def add_greetings(char_id):
    pass

def validate_model(cls,id):
    try:
        id = int(id)
    except:
        response =  response = {"message": f"{cls.__name__} {id} invalid"}
        abort(make_response(response , 400))

    query = db.select(cls).where(cls.id == id)
    model = db.session.scalar(query)
    if model:
        return model

    response = {"message": f"{cls.__name__} {id} not found"}
    abort(make_response(response, 404))
```
</details>
</br>

## Set up and connect the Database

Create and connect your database using the steps below

> 1. Set up a development database in psql called npc_generator_dev
> 2. Create a .env file and add the database as your `SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set up a development database in `psql` called `npc_generator_dev`
2. Create a `.env` file and add the database as your `SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI`
```

3. Run `flask init`, `flask migrate` and `flask upgrade` to connect the API to your database.
4. Test the POST and GET methods for `Character` in Postman.

<br />

<details>
  <summary>Sample Request Body for Testing in Postman</summary>

```JSON
{
    "name" : "Misty",
    "personality" : "Bubbly",
    "occupation" : "Gym Leader",
    "age" : 25
}

```
</details>
</br>

## Install the OpenAI Library and Connect Your Secret Key

Before we write our request to OpenAI within the project, we need to install the OpenAI Library. 

1. In your terminal, run `pip install --upgrade openai`
2. Run `pip freeze > requirements.txt` to add the OpenAI library to your requirements.
3. In your `.env` file, add the variable `OPENAI_API_KEY` and assign it the value of your secret key: `OPENAI_API_KEY=<Your Secret Key>`
4. In the `character_routes.py` file, import OpenAI and create an OpenAI environment using the code below:
    ```python

    from openai import OpenAI

>     client = OpenAI()

Reviewer: These lines are in the version of the routes file shared above on lines 100 & 103. Should those lines be removed if we want the students to add them at this point?

Author: Yes! Taking those out from above!

    ```
| <div style="min-width:300px;">Part of Code</div> | Description |
| ------------- | ----------- | 
| `from openai import OpenAI` | Import the OpenAI library |

> | `client = OpenAI()` | This code creates an OpenAI environment with your secret key from the `.env` file. We will use `client` to make our API calls. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `client = OpenAI()` | This code creates an OpenAI environment with your secret key from the `.env` file. We will use `client` to make requests to the OpenAI endpoints. |
```

## Make the API call

> To make an API call, we want to go ahead and use the `client` that we created. We'll go ahead and nest our call inside a helper function called `generate_greetings` that will take a character in as a parameter and then use the character's attributes to construct a prompt for our request body. This may look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make an API call, we'll create a helper function called `generate_greetings` that will take a `Character` in as a parameter. Then we'll use the `Character`'s attributes to construct a prompt for our request body. This may look something like:
```

```python

>     def generate_greetings(character):
> 
>         prompt = f"I am writing a video game in the style of The Witcher. I have an npc named {character.name} who is {character.age} years old. They are a {character.occupation} who has a {character.personality} personality. Please generate a python style list of 10 stock phrases they might use when the main character talks to them"

Reviewer: When we're showing a single function, we don't need to include leading indentation. Does it hurt the effectiveness of the prompt if we include the more general "role-playing games" term?

```suggestion
def generate_greetings(character):

    prompt = f"I am writing a video game in the style of The Witcher. I have an npc named {character.name} who is {character.age} years old. They are a {character.occupation} who has a {character.personality} personality. Please generate a python style list of 10 stock phrases they might use when the main character talks to them"
```

```

>  Once the prompt has been constructed, we can insert it to the request body of our API call. The code we will use to make the call to the chat completion endpoint and then store the response is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the prompt has been constructed, we can insert it to the request body of our API call. To send the request, we want to go ahead and use the `client` that we created. The code we will use to make the call to the chat completion endpoint and then store the response is:
```

> ```python
>     completion = client.chat.completions.create(
>         model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
>         messages=[
>             {"role": "user", "content": <prompt>}
>         ]
>     )
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
completion = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
    messages=[
        {"role": "user", "content": <prompt>}
    ]
)
```
```

> Remember that the chat completions endpoint returns a completion object. If we pause here a second and recall what that object looks like, this particular call's response may look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that the chat completions endpoint returns a completion object. Let's pause here and recall what that object looks like:
```

```JSON
{
    "id": "chatcmpl-9bJ0xZYjN6QaI7OQ0UgrIatFwM98E",
    "object": "chat.completion",
    "created": 1718678255,
    "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-0125",
    "choices": [
        {
            "index": 0,
            "message": {
                "role": "assistant",
                "content": "1. \"Hey there! Ready for a battle?\"\n2. \"Oh wow, you've come to challenge me? I'm so excited!\"\n3. \"Let's see what you've got! Bring it on!\"\n4. \"I'll give it my all! Let's make this battle intense!\"\n5. \"I hope you're prepared for my tough team of Pokémon.\"\n6. \"Don't underestimate me just because I'm bubbly. I'm a fierce competitor!\"\n7. \"I'm ready to show you the power of my gym leader skills!\"\n8. \"Win or lose, I always have a blast battling trainers like you.\"\n9. \"Let's have some fun and give it our all in this battle!\"\n10. \"No matter what happens, let's make this battle one to remember!\""
            },
            "logprobs": null,
            "finish_reason": "stop"
        }
    ],
    "usage": {
        "prompt_tokens": 72,
        "completion_tokens": 164,
        "total_tokens": 236
    },
    "system_fingerprint": null
}
```

> That is a lot of information but now it's up to us to parse through that response and determine what we want to use. Ultimately, we want to just use the content within the message. We have a list of generated greetings, but they are all a single string. Fortunately, each item is separated by a newline character, so we can use that to our advantage. If we parse through the completion object and access the content string itself, we can split it by newline character to return a list of responses. That return statement may look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is a lot of information but now it's up to us to parse through that response and determine what we want to use. Ultimately, we want to just use the `content` within the `message`. We have a list of generated greetings, but they are all a single string. Fortunately, each item is separated by a newline character, so we can use that to our advantage. If we parse through the completion object and access the `content` string itself, we can split it by the newline character to return a list of responses. That return statement may look something like:
```

```python

>     return(completion.choices[0].message.content.split("\n"))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
return(completion.choices[0].message.content.split("\n"))
```

```

When we string this all together, our `generate_greetings` helper method is as follows:
```python

>     def generate_greetings(character):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def generate_greetings(character):
```
